[CC 1.0.0] Choreo Connect Configuration override using env variables [Master] (#5037)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/configurations/configuration-overview.md

| `                           config.toml                                         ` | This file defines all the adapter, enforcer, router, security, control plane and analytics configurations and is located in the `             <CHOREO-CONNECT_HOME>/docker-compose/choreo-connect/conf` directory.                      |
| `                           log_config.toml                                         `       | This file defines the logging configurations for control plane and is located in the `             <CHOREO-CONNECT_HOME>/docker-compose/choreo-connect/conf` directory.                 |
| `                           log4j2.properties                                         `      | This file governs how logging is performed by the server can be found in `             <CHOREO-CONNECT_HOME>/docker-compose/choreo-connect/conf` directory.                 |

## Configurations Overview

> Only the adapter component reads the `config.toml` file. Then the enforcer and router components fetches the relevant configurations via XDS caches. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the Adapter component reads the `config.toml` file. Then the Enforcer and Router components fetches the relevant configurations via XDS caches. 
```

!!! note

>     The enforcer component fetches the relevant configurations only once from the adapter in its lifetime. If the adapter restart happens with a configuration change which contains changes related to enforcer, the enforcer also needs to be restarted again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The Enforcer component fetches the relevant configurations only once from the Adapter in its lifetime. If the Adapter is restarted with a configuration change which contains changes related to Enforcer, the Enforcer also needs to be restarted again.
```

> ## Override Configuration values with Environment Variables. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overriding configuration values with environment variables
```

> The configurations provided within `config.toml` can be overridden with environment variables. Since 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configurations provided within `config.toml` can be overridden with environment variables. As 
```

> the `config.toml` file is processed within adapter first, the environment variables should be assigned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `config.toml` file is processed within Adapter first, the environment variables should be assigned
```

> to the adapter environment. The variables are case-insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the Adapter environment. The variables are case-insensitive.
```

To override a configuration value like the following, the user needs to declare the environment variable
`CC_Adapter_Server_Port`. The value could be a boolean, a float, a string or an integer value.

```
[Adapter]
[Adapter.Server]
Port = 9843
```

> If the property to be overridden is a property of an array, Array Index should also be appended to the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the property to be overridden is a property of an array, the array index should also be appended to the 
```

> environment variable. (Index will depend on the order you define in the toml file.). To override the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment variable. (Index will depend on the order you define in the .toml file). To override the 
```

> following configuration, `CC_Adapter_Server_Users_0_Username` is the environment variable needs to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
following configuration, you need to declare the `CC_Adapter_Server_Users_0_Username` environment variable.
```

> declared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
[[Adapter.Server.Users]]
username = "John"
```

> If the toml key contains a dot, those characters should be replaced with underscore for the relevant 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the TOML key contains a dot, those characters should be replaced with underscore for the relevant 
```

environment variable. `cc_analytics_enforcer_configProperties_publisher_reporter_class` is the 
environment variable for the following configuration.

```
[analytics.enforcer.configProperties]
    "publisher.reporter.class" = "org.wso2.choreo.connect.tests.CustomMetricReporter"
```            

If the value of the configuration is a string, float or an integer array, those values needs to be provided as
a single string where the values are separated with a comma. 

```
[category]
stringArray = ["foo"]
```

> To override the above configuration, following command needs to be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to execute the following command to override the above configuration.
```

```
export cc_category_stringArray="foo, bar"
```

> ## Resolve Configuration values from environment using $env{variable} assignment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resolving configuration values from the environment using the $env{variable} assignment
```

> In addition to previously mentioned approach, the choreo-connect configuration values can be resolved from environment via assigning the property with the value "$env{variable_name}". Refer to the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the previously mentioned approach, the choreo-connect configuration values can be resolved via the environment by assigning the property with the value "$env{variable_name}". For example, see the following code snippet.
```

```
 [enforcer.throttling.publisher]
    username = "admin"
    password = "$env{tm_admin_pwd}"
```    

> In this case, the resolution of the env_variable is different compared to previous approach. For enforcer and analytics.enforcer configurations resolution happens using enforcer environment variables. For other configurations, the environment variable assignment should happen in adapter environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the resolution of the `env_variable` is different compared to previous approach. The Enforcer environment variables are used to resolve the `enforcer` and `analytics.enforcer` configurations. For other configurations, the environment variable assignment should happen in the Adapter environment. 
```

> For the above example, the user should assign the environment variable `tm_admin_pwd` to the enforcer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the above example, the user should assign the environment variable `tm_admin_pwd` to the Enforcer.
```
